in 1 300 bc moses a general and accepted
member of the egyptian royal family
prepares to attack an encamped hittite
army with prince ramesses at kadesh
a high priestess divines a prophecy from
animal intestines
which she relates to ramesses father
setiai
she tells the two men of the prophecy in
which a leader either moses or ramesses
will be saved and the savior will
someday lead
during the battle moses saves ramesses
life
leaving both men troubled later moses is
sent to the city of pitham to meet with
the viceroy egypt
who oversees the hebrew slaves upon his
arrival
he encounters the slave joshua and saves
him from a vicious lashing
moses is appalled by the horrific
conditions the slaves must toil in
afterward moses meets none who informs
him of his true lineage
he is the child of hebrew parents who
was sent by his sister miriam to be
raised by pharaoh's daughter
moses is stunned at the revelation and
leaves angrily
however two hebrews overhear none story
and report their discovery to egypt
seti dies soon after and ramesses
becomes the new pharaoh
ramesses too egypt reveals moses's true
lineage to ramesses
but ramesses is unconvinced at the
urging of queen tuya
he interrogates the servant miriam who
denies being moses's sister
when ramesses threatens to cut off her
arm moses says yes
he is a hebrew although tuyo wants moses
killed
ramesses still unwilling to believe the
story exiles him instead
before leaving egypt moses meets with
his adopted mother
and miriam who refer to him by his birth
name of moshe
following a journey into the desert
moses comes to midian where he meets
zipporah and her father
jethro moses becomes a shepherd marries
zipporah
and has a son gershom years later
moses is injured in a rock slide he
encounters a burning bush and a boy
a manifestation of the god of abraham
while recovering
moses reveals his past to zipporah and
reveals what god has asked him to do
this drives a wedge between the couple
but moses leaves anyway
in egypt moses reunites with nun and
joshua
as well as meeting his brother aaron for
the first time
moses confronts ramesses demanding the
hebrews be released from servitude
ramesses refuses to listen insisting
that freeing them is economically
impossible
upon moses threatening rammus is his
life ramesses orders moses's death
as well as killing random hebrew
families until moses is found
using his military skills moses trains
the slaves and leads them in an
insurgency
prompting ramesses to retaliate harshly
god's manifestation appears to moses and
explains that 10
plagues will affect egypt the first nine
plagues deal massive damage to egypt and
its people
but ramesses does not back down even
oppressing his people further to
maintain his position
moses is horrified to learn from god
that the tenth plague will be the death
of all first-born children but follows
through with the plan
the hebrews protect themselves by
covering their doors with lamb's blood
as instructed by moses
while all of egypt's firstborn children
die including ramesses
infant son ramesses devastated
surrenders allowing the hebrews to leave
during the exodus the hebrews follow
moses's original path through the desert
towards the red sea
still grieving his son ramesses
assembles his army and gives chase
after making their way through a
dangerous mountain pass moses and the
hebrews arrive at the edge of the sea
uncertain about what to do in despair
moses flings his sword into the sea
which recedes and clears a path to the
opposite side
ramesses and his army continue the
pursuit but moses stays behind to
confront them
the red sea reverts back drowning the
majority of the egyptians
crossing the red sea moses survives and
rejoins the hebrews
ramesses also survives but is distraught
and stunned over the destruction of his
army and empire
and with no way to return to egypt moses
leads the hebrews back to midian
where he reunites with zipporah and
gershom
at mount sinai moses transcribes the ten
commandments
years later an elderly moses riding with
the ark of the covenant sees god's
manifestation walking with the hebrews
through the desert
[Music]